First draft of the ABsmartly (Actions) docs (#5268)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/destinations/catalog/actions-absmartly/index.md

---
title: ABsmartly (Actions) Destination
---

{% include content/plan-grid.md name="actions" %}

[ABsmartly](https://absmartly.com/?utm_source=segmentio&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=partners){:target="_blank"} provides an on-premise, full-stack experimentation platform for engineering and product teams that do continuous experimentation embedded into their development process. ABsmartly's real-time analytics help engineering and product teams ensure that new features will improve the customer experience without breaking or degrading performance and/or business metrics.

This destination is maintained by ABsmartly. For any issues with the destination, [contact ABsmartly's Support](mailto:support@absmartly.com).

> ## Benefits of ABsmartly (Actions) vs A/B Smartly Classic

Reviewer: Does the classic destination have the same marketing/casing for the name as the Actions destination does?

```suggestion
## Benefits of ABsmartly (Actions) vs ABsmartly Classic
```

> - **Easier Setup**. Actions-based destinations are easier to configure with clear default settings; Enabling you to get started quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Easier Setup**: Actions-based destinations are easier to configure with clear default settings, letting you quickly get started.
```

> - **Easier Setup**. Actions-based destinations are easier to configure with clear default settings enabling you to get started quickly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Easier Setup**. Actions-based destinations are easier to configure with clear default settings; Enabling you to get started quickly.
```

> - **Control and clearer mapping**. Actions-based destinations enable you to define the mapping between the data Segment receives from your source, and the data Segment sends to ABsmartly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Control and clearer mapping**: Actions-based destinations enable you to define the mapping between the data Segment receives from your source and the data Segment sends to ABsmartly.
```

> - **Control and clearer mapping**. Actions-based destinations enable you to define the mapping between the data Segment receives from your source, and the data Segment sends to the ABsmartly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Control and clearer mapping**. Actions-based destinations enable you to define the mapping between the data Segment receives from your source, and the data Segment sends to ABsmartly.
```

## Getting started

1. From the Segment web app, click **Catalog**.
2. Search for "ABsmartly" in the Catalog, select **ABsmartly (Actions)**, and choose which of your sources to connect the destination to.
3. Add the following Connection Settings:
   - **Collector Endpoint**: Your ABsmartly Collector REST Endpoint. Usually `https://<your-subdomain>.absmartly.io/v1`

>    - **API Key**: An existing API Key. Created under Settings->API Keys in the ABsmartly Web Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **API Key**: An existing API Key. Created under Settings > API Keys in the ABsmartly Web Console.
```

   - **Environment**: The environment where the events are originated matching an existing environment in ABsmartly. Created under Settings->Environments in the ABsmartly Web Console.
5. Enable the _Track Calls_ mapping to send events to ABsmartly.

{% include components/actions-fields.html %}

> info ""

> > If you need support setting things up, you can contact the ABsmartly support team on Slack or via email at [ABsmartly's Support](mailto:support@absmartly.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you need support setting things up, you can contact the ABsmartly support team on Slack or [via email](mailto:support@absmartly.com).
```

# Sending exposures to Segment

It can be useful to send experiment exposures to Segment for visibility from 

> other destinations. The Segment spec includes the [Experiment Viewed semantic event](https://segment.com/docs/connections/spec/ab-testing/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other destinations. The Segment Spec includes the [Experiment Viewed semantic event](/docs/connections/spec/ab-testing/)
```

for this purpose.

> info ""

> > By default, the _Track Calls_ mapping will filter and not send to ABsmartly events with name `Experiment Viewed`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> By default, the _Track Calls_ mapping will filter and not send any events with the name `Experiment Viewed` to ABsmartly.
```

> In the ABsmartly context, we can [install a custom event logger](https://docs.absmartly.com/docs/sdk%20documentation/getting-started/#using-a-custom-event-logger) and send exposures directly to Segment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can [install a custom event logger](https://docs.absmartly.com/docs/sdk%20documentation/getting-started/#using-a-custom-event-logger){:target="_blank"} in ABsmartly and send exposures directly to Segment.
```

                // filter only relevant and interesting exposures
                // if the assigned flag is false, this exposure was a treatment call that did not result in an assignment
                // this can happen if, for example, the experiment is no longer running, but treatment() calls are still in the application code
                if (exposure.assigned) {
                    analytics.track("Experiment Viewed", {
                        experiment_id: exposure.id,
                        experiment_name: exposure.name,
                        variation_id: exposure.variant,
                        variation_name: "ABCDEFG"[exposure.variant],
                    });
                }
            }
        },
    });

    const context = sdk.createContext(request);
    context.attribute("user_agent", navigator.userAgent);

    context.ready().then((response) => {
        console.log("ABSmartly Context ready!");
        console.log(context.treatment("test-exp"));
    }).catch((error) => {
        console.log(error);
    });
});
```

### Publishing experiment exposures through Segment

To publish experiment exposures through Segment, you must first configure

> and enable the _Exposures (Verbatim)_ mapping on your ABsmartly (Actions) destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and enable the _Exposures (Verbatim)_ mapping in your ABsmartly (Actions) destination.
```

> We want to replace the direct flow of exposure events from the ABsmartly SDK to the ABsmartly collector, by instead sending them to Segment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By enabling the _Exposures (Verbatim)_ mapping in Segment, you replace the direct flow of exposure events from the ABsmartly SDK to the ABsmartly collector and instead send them to Segment
```

                                exposures: [exposure],
                            },
                            // add anything else in the a/b smartly payload that are not exposures or goals
                            ...Object.entries(request)
                                .filter(e => (e[0] !== 'exposures') && (e[0] !== 'goals'))
                                .map(e => ({[e[0]]: e[1]}))
                        )
                    });
                }
            }

            return Promise.resolve();
        }
    }

    // set this as the default publisher - all contexts created from now on will use it by default
    sdk.setContextPublisher(new SegmentContextPublisher(analytics));

    const request = {
        units: {
            userId: analytics.user().id(),
            anonymousId: analytics.user().anonymousId(),
        },
    };

    window.context = sdk.createContext(request);
    context.attribute("user_agent", navigator.userAgent);

    context.ready().then((response) => {
        console.log("ABSmartly Context ready!");
        console.log(context.treatment("test-exp"));
    }).catch((error) => {
        console.log(error);
    });
});
```

> ## Migration from the classic A/B Smartly destination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migration from the classic ABsmartly destination
```

> To migrate from the classic A/B Smartly destination to ABsmartly (Actions) be sure to disconnect the classic A/B Smartly destination before enabling the ABsmartly (Actions) destination to avoid duplicate experimentation events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To migrate from the classic ABsmartly destination to ABsmartly (Actions), disconnect the classic ABsmartly destination before enabling the ABsmartly (Actions) destination to avoid duplicate experimentation events.
```

> To migrate from the classic A/B Smartly destination to ABsmartly (Actions) be sure to disconnect the classic A/B Smartly destination before enabling the ABsmartly (Actions) destination to avoid duplicate experimentation events in ABsmartly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To migrate from the classic A/B Smartly destination to ABsmartly (Actions) be sure to disconnect the classic A/B Smartly destination before enabling the ABsmartly (Actions) destination to avoid duplicate experimentation events.
```
